ANESTHESIA TYPE:
General
PREOPERATIVE ANTIBIOTIC:
Ancef
PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Patient is 85 years old with history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation,
elevated bleeding risk and a poor candidate for long-term anticoagulation.
She was recommended for left atrial appendage occlusion with Amplatzer
amulet device.
POST-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Same
INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:
Same
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE(S):
After informed consent was obtained the patient was brought to the
catheterization lab in a stable, fasting state. A timeout was performed and
she was given general anesthesia and monitored by CRNA through the procedure.
TEE probe was then passed and used to evaluate the left atrial appendage.
The patient was prepped and draped in sterile fashion and local anesthesia
was given to the bilateral inguinal regions. Under ultrasound guidance the
left common femoral vein was accessed with insertion of a 9 French sheath and
ice catheter that was advanced into the right atrium and used to evaluate the
interatrial septum and appendage. Ultrasound was used to access the right
common femoral vein and the Baylis system was advanced and used for
transseptal puncture. With the sheath in the left atrium, pigtail catheter
was advanced into the left atrial appendage and angiography was performed.
Left atrial pressure was also measured. The ice catheter was advanced across
the septum into the left atrium and used to evaluate the appendage as well.
The 22 mm amulet left atrial appendage occluder was then advanced into the
left atrial appendage and deployed in standard fashion. Tug testing was
performed and did not show any migration of the device. The device was
evaluated under TEE and ice, and there was no leak around the device.
Angiography was also performed. There was no pericardial effusion. The
device was then released and the system retracted into the TVC. The
delivery system was then removed and a Perclose was used for hemostasis in
addition to a VASCADE. The ice catheter was removed as well as the 9 French
sheath and Perclose was used for hemostasis. Overall the patient tolerated
the procedure well without any immediate complications and was transferred to
the recovery area in stable condition.
FINDING(S):
Pre-TEE and ice demonstrate no evidence of pericardial effusion or
thrombus prior to left atrial appendage occlusion insertion.
Post TEE and ice demonstrate no leak around the device, with complete