patient was prepped and draped in sterile fashion ana local anesthesia was
given to the bilateral inguinal regions. Under ultrasound guidance the left
common femoral vein was accessed with insertion of a 9 French sheath and ice
catheter that was advanced into the right atrium and used to evaluate the
interatrial septum and appendage. Ultrasound was used to access the right
common femoral vein and the Baylis system was advanced and used for
transseptal puncture. With the sheath in the left atrium, pigtail catheter
was advanced into the left atrial appendage and angiography was performed.
Left atrial pressure was also measured. The ice catheter was advanced across
the septum into the left atrium and used to evaluate the appendage as well.
The 22 mm amulet left atrial appendage occluder was then advanced into the
left atrial appendage and deployed in standard fashion. Tug testing was
performed and did not show any migration of the device. The device was
evaluated under TEE. and ice, and there was no leak around the device.
Angiography was also performed. There was no pericardial effusion. The
device was then released and the system retracted into the JVC. The delivery
system was then removed and a Perclose was used for hemostasis in addition to
a VASCADE. The ice catheter was removed as well as the 9 French sheath and
Perclose was used for hemostasis. Overall the patient tolerated the procedure
well without any immediate complications and was transferred to the recovery
area in stable condition.
FINDING(S):
Pre-TEE and ice demonstrate no evidence of pericardial effusion or thrombus
prior to left atrial appendage occlusion insertion.
Post TEE and ice demonstrate no leak around the device, with complete
occlusion of the left atrial appendage. There is no pericardial effusion
present. Left atrial pressure 12 mmHg
COMPLICATIONS:
No immediate complications post procedure
IMPLANTS/EXPLANTS:
Amplatzer amulet 28 mm lot #9025459
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:
20 cc
PATIENT CONDITION:
_ Good _ X Stable _ Guarded _ Poor/Unstable
Akram W. Ibrahim, MD, FACC, RPVI
Interventional and Structural Cardiology
Biltmore Cardiology - Arizona Heart Hospital
Cell: 480-208-1394
Electronically Signed On 04/25/24 11:07 MST